---
layout: post
title: "Updates!"
date: 2010-01-10T10:00:00
categories: ["Uncategorized"]
excerpt: >
 <p>I have been on a wild ride these past few months. First I started working for a new company <a href='http://gisinc.com'>GISi</a>. and then moved to Baltimore City. Let’s just say Baltimore City is a lot more interesting than Harford County.</p><p> </p>
---
<p>I have been on a wild ride these past few months. First I started working for a new company <a href='http://gisinc.com'>GISi</a>. and then moved to Baltimore City. Let’s just say Baltimore City is a lot more interesting than Harford County.</p>
<p>In case you have been wondering, I have shifted my efforts to a new project back in January. When it goes live, it will blow your mind. Until then I am keeping it under wraps. Unfortunately because it has been under wraps, I have not had a lot to post on here. I know, you must be thinking, ‘January-June is 6 months… shouldn’t you have a finished product by now?’ Well yes I should, but I’ve been working on a number of other projects.</p>
<p>I competed in GIS inc.’s first ever cartographic competition. It was totally killer. I didn’t end up winning, but I am really proud of my product. I created a Risk Game Board for Shelby County, Alabama. It is totally circa civil war old school. It is really fun to mimic antiquated cartography with modern technology. If you want to check it out, here is a [link].</p>
<p>I also won the Developer of the Quarter Award Spring 2010 for GIS inc. This is due to my efforts with producing ticketing scripts and my work incorporating Army Mapper into the militaries version of wikipedia, milWiki. The award consisted of 56 hours of Research and Development time. I developed a cross platform mapping application for mobile devices in HTML5. The best part is that I embedded my web mapping application into native apps for both Droid and iPhone. I’m really excited to apply what I learned from this project for clients in the future.</p>
<p>Oh man, I almost forgot. I moved to a new hosting company, hostmonster. There are some weird quirks, but it does include postgresql. Expect some big things in the next few months. Once I get shell access, I plan on installing geoDjango. I’m so excited!</p>
<p>Alright, well I have to run.</p>
<p>Keep it real,</p>
<p>Christopher</p>

